doc/talib.rst, before:

TA-Lib integration
==================

The **pyalgotrade.talibext.indicator** module provides integration with Python wrapper for TA-Lib (http://mrjbq7.github.com/ta-lib/)
to enable calling TA-Lib functions directly with :class:`pyalgotrade.dataseries.DataSeries` or :class:`pyalgotrade.dataseries.BarDataSeries`
instances instead of numpy arrays.

If you're familiar with the **talib** module, then using the **pyalgotrade.talibext.indicator** module should be straightforward.
When using **talib** standalone you do something like this: ::

    import numpy
    import talib

    data = numpy.random.random(100)
    upper, middle, lower = talib.BBANDS(data, matype=talib.MA_T3)

To use the **pyalgotrade.talibext.indicator** module in your strategies you should do something like this: ::

    def on_bars(self, bars):
        closeDs = self.get_feed().get_data_series("orcl").get_close_data_series()
        upper, middle, lower = pyalgotrade.talibext.indicator.BBANDS(closeDs, 100, matype=talib.MA_T3)
        if upper != None:
            print "%s" % upper[-1]

Every function in the **pyalgotrade.talibext.indicator** module receives one or more dataseries (most receive just one) and the
number of values to use from the dataseries. In the example above, we're calculating Bollinger Bands over the last 100 closing prices.

If the parameter name is **ds**, then you should pass a regular :class:`pyalgotrade.dataseries.DataSeries` instance, like the one
shown in the example above.

If the parameter name is **barDs**, then you should pass a :class:`pyalgotrade.dataseries.BarDataSeries` instance, like in the next
example: ::

    def on_bars(self, bars):
        barDs = self.get_feed().get_data_series("orcl")
        sar = indicator.SAR(barDs, 100)
        if sar != None:
            print "%s" % sar[-1]

The following TA-Lib functions are available through the **pyalgotrade.talibext.indicator** module:

.. automodule:: pyalgotrade.talibext.indicator
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Commit message:

fork project to PyTradeLab, drop homegrown indicators and change license to LGPLv3 for all future files (files from PyAlgoTrade are clearly marked and remain under the Apache License v2.0)

doc/talib.rst, after:

TA-Lib integration
==================

The **pytradelab.talibext.indicator** module provides integration with Python wrapper for TA-Lib (http://mrjbq7.github.com/ta-lib/)
to enable calling TA-Lib functions directly with :class:`pytradelab.dataseries.DataSeries` or :class:`pytradelab.dataseries.BarDataSeries`
instances instead of numpy arrays.

If you're familiar with the **talib** module, then using the **pytradelab.talibext.indicator** module should be straightforward.
When using **talib** standalone you do something like this: ::

    import numpy
    import talib

    data = numpy.random.random(100)
    upper, middle, lower = talib.BBANDS(data, matype=talib.MA_T3)

To use the **pytradelab.talibext.indicator** module in your strategies you should do something like this: ::

    def on_bars(self, bars):
        closeDs = self.get_feed().get_data_series("orcl").get_close_data_series()
        upper, middle, lower = pytradelab.talibext.indicator.BBANDS(closeDs, 100, matype=talib.MA_T3)
        if upper != None:
            print "%s" % upper[-1]

Every function in the **pytradelab.talibext.indicator** module receives one or more dataseries (most receive just one) and the
number of values to use from the dataseries. In the example above, we're calculating Bollinger Bands over the last 100 closing prices.

If the parameter name is **ds**, then you should pass a regular :class:`pytradelab.dataseries.DataSeries` instance, like the one
shown in the example above.

If the parameter name is **barDs**, then you should pass a :class:`pytradelab.dataseries.BarDataSeries` instance, like in the next
example: ::

    def on_bars(self, bars):
        barDs = self.get_feed().get_data_series("orcl")
        sar = indicator.SAR(barDs, 100)
        if sar != None:
            print "%s" % sar[-1]

The following TA-Lib functions are available through the **pytradelab.talibext.indicator** module:

.. automodule:: pytradelab.talibext.indicator
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource
